=========================
stackd.io webserver guide
=========================

This guide will help you quickly get the web portion of stackd.io
running behind either Apache or Nginx. You should've already worked
through the `quickstart guide <quickstart.md>`__ before running through
the steps below. As with the quickstart, our focus is not entirely on
building out a production-ready system, but merely helping you quickly
get a system stood up to become familiar with stackd.io. Once you
understand how it works, then we can start hardening the system for
production use.

So, with that said, there are two paths to take: Apache or Nginx. We
recommend using whichever you feel more comfortable with. Some of us
here like Apache, while others like Nginx. Your mileage may vary :)

Common Steps
============

To do some of the steps below you will need to have already installed
stackdio and be in the virtual environment. To make sure you're in the
virtualenv:

.. code:: bash

    workon stackdio

Both Apache and Nginx installs need a place to store logs and some
static files to serve up. These two steps are common to both and should
be run before proceeding with configuring the web server.

.. code:: bash

    # Create the log directory that we'll have Apache or Nginx log to

    mkdir -p ~/.stackdio/var/log/web

    # And tell Django to collect its static files into a common directory for the webserver to serve up
    stackdio manage.py collectstatic --noinput

Apache
======

CentOS Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Install required packages:

.. code:: bash

    sudo yum install httpd mod_wsgi mod_ssl

Followed by having stackd.io generate a simple Apache configuration file
for serving up the Django-based API and static assets and store the
output into the appropriate location.

.. code:: bash

    stackdio config apache | sudo tee /etc/httpd/conf.d/stackdio.conf > /dev/null

Fix a permissions problem with the user's home directory not having
execute permissions. This is needed because of httpd v2.2 needing
directory execute permissions from the web directory up to the root
directory.

.. code:: bash

    chmod +x ~/

    NOTE: You may pass --with-ssl to generate boilerplate for serving
    over SSL, but you will need to add your certs and point to them in
    the configuration file. You may also need to remove the existing
    ssl.conf from within conf.d.

And that's it...let's start the server and then point your browser to
the hostname on port 80 (use https if you decided to serve over SSL.)

.. code:: bash

    sudo service httpd restart

Ubuntu Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Install required packages:

.. code:: bash

    sudo apt-get install apache2 libapache2-mod-wsgi

and just like the CentOS instructions, generate and store the Apache
configuration file into the correct location:

.. code:: bash

    stackdio config apache | sudo tee /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/stackdio.conf > /dev/null

    NOTE: You may pass --with-ssl to generate boilerplate for serving
    over SSL, but you will need to add your certs and point to them in
    the configuration file.

and finally, start the server:

.. code:: bash

    sudo service apache2 restart

Nginx
=====

In our configuration, Nginx will be used to serve static files and as a
proxy to send requests down to the Django application running via
gunicorn on port 8000. The configuration we'll generate is useful to use
a quick start mechanism to get you up and running behind Nginx/gunicorn
very quickly.

CentOS Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Install required packaged, generate and write configuration file, and
restart server:

.. code:: bash

    sudo yum install nginx

    stackdio config nginx | sudo tee /etc/nginx/conf.d/stackdio.conf > /dev/null

    # rename the default server configuration
    sudo mv /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf.bak

    sudo service nginx restart

Ubuntu Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: bash

    sudo apt-get install nginx

    stackdio config nginx | sudo tee /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/stackdio.conf > /dev/null

    # remove the default configuration symlink
    sudo rm /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default

    sudo service nginx restart
